All right so let's now look
at some of the out of ordinary things
that may pop up.. when applying encapsulation principles.
I've mentioned that encapsulation is information hiding
and enforcing data integrity around an object.
But implementing encapsulation
may not always be perfectly straight forward.
We're going to create a new class here.
Now.. a same project,
encapsulation project.
And I'm gonna call this one "Person",
who is going to be in the com.entity package.
(keyboard clicking)
Com.entity.person.
There's our bean.. person bean.
So I'm looking at this at a quick glance.
It looks like a well encapsulated class.
It hides the attributes as you can see there.
We've got getters and setters.
The attributes are marked private.
It also provides a constructor,
as you can see there,
to initialise the attributes
and methods to access the attributes as I mentioned.
All right
next we need to create a class named "Person Tester".
So we can test this bean out.
So let's do that.
Your class name's gonna be "com.entity" again.
(keyboard clicking)
".persontester".
Press in some code.
I've got an error there
because I think I missed a package statement.
So.. it's package.. com.entity,
which made that import redundant.
All right so there's the code.
Now this code,
if you look at you can see there
that there's some local variables
and it's creating two instances of our person bean.
And if you run this code,
so can you see what's happened there?
Basically,
with set up in this StringBuilder object here,
we've actually passed that to the person or to the bean,
person bean and.. saved it.
We've then updated the address,
we've actually appended the -0005 to it.
We've instead changed to a new version
of the person class there,
and we're printing out both person classes.
You can see both of them have actually got the same address.
So in other words the second update, the append,
those changes have been reflected in the "First Person" bean
and it's obviously a bad thing.
The point here
is that if your attributes are reference variables,
you should actually make a copy of the data in the bean
before signing it to the instance variables.
So to do that you go back to your person day there.
You can see this address equals address.
Well that should actually be new StringBuilder address.
(keyboard typing)
And if you do that,
and we run the code again.. our person tester.
You can see now the address clearly is different
for each of our person beans.
Which is correct
because we're instantiating a new version
of the StringBuilder address
each time we're creating a person.
But that's okay.
We're assigning a address to the new StringBuilder
which the calling class has no access to,
and that ensures the integrity of the data in the class.
Make sure you're addressing that
in any beans you're creating.
All right.
Next we're gonna test
how well you're understanding capsulation
with some quiz questions.
And then we'll follow with that into the next section,
where we're gonna start looking
at reusing implementations by inheritance.
See you in the next quiz or video.